Update README.md (#41)
airware/buzzard: README.md

The code is currently annotated for review, it will be cleaned before merging.

Previous code is annotated with a :heavy_multiplication_x: symbol.
New code is annotated with a :grey_question: symbol.

```
# repository's description
X Geofiles management can be great. No joke!
? Data-science with images and geometries
? Advanced raster and geometry manipulations

which one?
```

```
# repository's keywords
X python gis raster vector gdal feedback-welcome footprint
? python gis geospatial raster image vector geometry gdal ogr osr data-science footprint rasters-pipelines

more? less?

> ```

Author: Googling `footprint raster` gives non-buzzard results related to GIS

> 

Author: what about `rasters-pipelines`?

> 

Reviewer: meh.. Ô wise @azarz, enlight us !

> 

Reviewer 2: Thou summoneth me, hither I cometh.
When searching `raster pipelines` on the mighty Google, there is one image result that seems to match what buzzard does.
Also, to answer Toz3wm's initial comment, I don't think putting "how" the work is done (optimizations) in the tags/keywords is necessary.

TODO: Update example images URL

---

Begining of `README.md`.

---

# `buzzard`
:heavy_multiplication_x: In a nutshell, `buzzard` reads and writes geospatial raster and vector data.

> :grey_question: In a nutshell, `buzzard` provides powerful abstractions to work with images and geometries that comes from many kind of sources.

Author: nor does `raster`!

## `buzzard` is
:heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x:
- a python library
- a `gdal`/`ogr`/`osr` wrapper
- designed to hide all cumbersome operations while working with GIS files
- designed for data science workflows
- under active development (see [`todo`](https://www.notion.so/buzzard/2c94ef6ee8da4d6280834129cc00f4d2?v=334ead18796342feb32ba85ccdfcf69f))
- tested with `pytest` with python 3.4 and python 3.7

:heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x:

:grey_question: :grey_question: :grey_question:
- A _python_ library.
- Primarily designed to hide all cumbersome operations when doing data-science with [GIS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_information_system) files.
- Multipurpose, it can be used in all kind of situations were images or geometries are involved.
- A pythonic wrapper for _osgeo_'s _gdal_/_ogr_/_osr_.
- A solution to work with arbitrary large images by simplifying and automating the manipulation of image slices.
- Developed at [Delair](https://delair.aero) where it is used in several deep learning and algorithmic projects.

> 

Author: What about `A pythonic wrapper for _osgeo_'s _gdal_/_ogr_/_osr_.`?

:grey_question: :grey_question: :grey_question:

## How to open and read files

> This example demonstrates how to visualize a large raster based on polygons.

Author: What about `polygon per polygon`?

> This example demonstrates how to visualize a large raster based on polygons.

Reviewer: :+1:

    rgb[mask] = (rgb[mask] * 0.5).astype(np.uint8)
    rgb[alpha == 0] = [236, 120, 57]

    # Show the result with matplotlib
    plt.imshow(rgb)
    plt.show()

```
Images from ISPRS's Potsdam dataset.

`Footprint(tl=(3183.600000, -914.550000), br=(3689.700000, -1170.450000), size=(506.100000, 255.900000), rsize=(3374, 1706))`

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/airware/buzzard/raw/README-update/img/ex0-img0.jpg" width="80%"><br><br>
</div>

`Footprint(tl=(3171.600000, -1321.500000), br=(4553.400000, -2400.000000), size=(1381.800000, 1078.500000), rsize=(9212, 7190))`

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/airware/buzzard/raw/README-update/img/ex0-img1.jpg" width="70%"><br><br>
</div>

## How to create files and manipulate _Footprints_
```py
import buzzard as buzz
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import keras

r = buzz.open_raster('path/to/rgba-image.file')
km = keras.models.load_model('path/to/deep-learning-model.hdf5')

# Chunk the raster's Footprint to Footprints of size
# 1920 x 1080 pixel stored in a 2d numpy array
tiles = r.fp.tile(1920, 1080)

all_roads = []

for i, fp in enumerate(tiles.flat):

>     rgb = r.get_data(fp=fp, channels=(0, 1, 2))

Author: :-1: !!!

>     rgb = r.get_data(fp=fp, channels=(0, 1, 2))

Author: It changes, and there is an alpha channel here

    # Perform pixelwise semantic segmentation with a keras model

>     predictions_heatmap = km.predict(rgb[np.newaxis, ...])[0]

Author: Have you heard about aerial intelligence?

>     predictions_heatmap = km.predict(rgb[np.newaxis, ...])[0]

Reviewer: We should fund an agency on that topic

- Instantiation of image processing pipelines where each node is a raster, and each edge is a user defined python function working on _numpy.ndarray_ (beta, partially implemented).
  - _Options:_ `automatic parallelization using user defined thread or process pools`, `disk caching`.
  - _Properties:_ `lazy evaluation`, `deterministic`, `automatic tasks chunking into tiles`, `fine grain task prioritization`, `backpressure prevention`.
- Spatial reference homogenization between opened files like a GIS software does (beta)

:grey_question: :grey_question: :grey_question:

## `buzzard` contains
:heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x:
- a class to open/read/write/create GIS files: [`Dataset`](./buzzard/_dataset.py)
- a toolbox class designed to locate a rectangle in both image space and geometry space: [`Footprint`](./buzzard/_footprint.py)

:heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x:

:grey_question: :grey_question: :grey_question:
- A [`Dataset`](https://github.com/airware/buzzard/blob/master/buzzard/_dataset.py) class that oversees all opened files in order to share ressources.

> - An immutable toolbox class, the [`Footprint`](https://github.com/airware/buzzard/blob/master/buzzard/_footprint.py), designed to locate a rectangle in both image space and geometry space.

Author: You're right, the Footprint objects are immutable, not the class itself. No one will notice!

The code is currently annotated for review, it will be cleaned before merging.

Previous code is annotated with a :heavy_multiplication_x: symbol.
New code is annotated with a :grey_question: symbol.

```
# repository's description
X Geofiles management can be great. No joke!
? Data-science with images and geometries
? Advanced raster and geometry manipulations

which one?
```

```
# repository's keywords
X python gis raster vector gdal feedback-welcome footprint
? python gis geospatial raster image vector geometry gdal ogr osr data-science footprint rasters-pipelines

more? less?
```

TODO: Update example images URL

---

Begining of `README.md`.

---

# `buzzard`
:heavy_multiplication_x: In a nutshell, `buzzard` reads and writes geospatial raster and vector data.

> :grey_question: In a nutshell, `buzzard` provides powerful abstractions to work with images and geometries that comes from many kind of sources.

Reviewer 3: Do you really want to remove `geospatial` ?

Author: I do. The `buzzard is` section below is quite honest already, but I would like the description and this intro to also reflect what buzzard may become

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/airware/buzzard/raw/master/img/buzzard.png"><br><br>
</div>

[![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/airware/buzzard/blob/master/LICENSE)[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/airware/buzzard/tree/master.svg?style=shield&circle-token=9d41310f0eb3f8ff120a7103ba2d7ee5d5d628b7)](https://circleci.com/gh/airware/buzzard/tree/master)[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/airware/buzzard/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=FbWmLGplCq)](https://codecov.io/gh/airware/buzzard)

## `buzzard` is
:heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x:
- a python library
- a `gdal`/`ogr`/`osr` wrapper
- designed to hide all cumbersome operations while working with GIS files
- designed for data science workflows
- under active development (see [`todo`](https://www.notion.so/buzzard/2c94ef6ee8da4d6280834129cc00f4d2?v=334ead18796342feb32ba85ccdfcf69f))
- tested with `pytest` with python 3.4 and python 3.7

> 

Reviewer 4: From my point of view, it would have been nice to keep a short description of the main classes for Buzzard beginners. Indeed, geospatial field is easily confusing. A technical word may bring to different interpretation.

Furthermore, we now jump straight from a general presentation to examples. Developing the explanation of classes could make easier to get the importance of buzzard even for GIS specialist.

Reviewer 4: I have just noticed you moved this part at the end. I still believe we should keep it before the examples and bring more explanation ...

Author: Good idea

:heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x:

:grey_question: :grey_question: :grey_question:
- A _python_ library.
- Primarily designed to hide all cumbersome operations when doing data-science with [GIS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_information_system) files.
- Multipurpose: it can be used in all kind of situations were images or geometries are involved.
- A pythonic wrapper for _osgeo_'s _gdal_/_ogr_/_osr_.
- A solution to work with arbitrary large images by simplifying and automating the manipulation of image slices.
- Developed at [Delair](https://delair.aero) where it is used in several deep learning and algorithmic projects.

:grey_question: :grey_question: :grey_question:

## How to open and read files
This example demonstrates how to visualize a large raster polygon per polygon.

```py
import buzzard as buzz
import numpy as np
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

# Open the files. Only files' metadata are read so far
r = buzz.open_raster('path/to/rgba-image.file')

> v = buzz.open_vector('path/to/polygons.file')

Reviewer 3: Not a fan of single character for variables names, especially in a README

Author: I'm not sure about this one. It makes the buzzard syntax look lighter.
And in this context, it is easy to infer the `r` and `v` meanings because of the perfect horizontal symmetry with the `raster` and `vector` words 14 chars to the right. 

What do you think?

# Load the polygons from disk one by one as shapely objects
for poly in v.iter_data():

    # Compute the Footprint bounding `poly`
    fp = r.fp.intersection(poly)
    print(fp)

    # Load the image from disk at `fp` to a numpy array
    rgb = r.get_data(fp=fp, channels=(0, 1, 2))
    alpha = r.get_data(fp=fp, channels=3)

    # Create a boolean mask as a numpy array from the shapely polygon
    mask = np.invert(fp.burn_polygons(poly))

    # Darken pixels outside of polygon, set transparent pixels to orange
    rgb[mask] = (rgb[mask] * 0.5).astype(np.uint8)
    rgb[alpha == 0] = [236, 120, 57]

    # Show the result with matplotlib
    plt.imshow(rgb)
    plt.show()

```

> Images from the ISPRS's Potsdam dataset.

Reviewer 3: Make an hyperlink ?
http://www2.isprs.org/commissions/comm3/wg4/2d-sem-label-potsdam.html

The code is currently annotated for review, it will be cleaned before merging.

Previous code is annotated with a :heavy_multiplication_x: symbol.
New code is annotated with a :grey_question: symbol.

```
# repository's description
X Geofiles management can be great. No joke!
? Data-science with images and geometries
? Advanced raster and geometry manipulations

which one?
```

```
# repository's keywords
X python gis raster vector gdal feedback-welcome footprint
? python gis geospatial raster image vector geometry gdal ogr osr data-science footprint rasters-pipelines

more? less?
```

TODO: Update example images URL

---

Begining of `README.md`.

---

# `buzzard`
:heavy_multiplication_x: In a nutshell, `buzzard` reads and writes geospatial raster and vector data.

> :grey_question: In a nutshell, `buzzard` provides powerful abstractions to work with images and geometries that comes from many kind of sources.

Author: Smart!

> :grey_question: In a nutshell, `buzzard` provides powerful abstractions to work with images and geometries that comes from many kind of sources.

Author: ```suggestion
:grey_question: In a nutshell, the `buzzard` library provides powerful abstractions to manipulate together images (GeoTIFF, PNG, ...) and geometries (GeoJSON, Shapefile, ...) that come from different kind of sources.
```

> :grey_question: In a nutshell, `buzzard` provides powerful abstractions to work with images and geometries that comes from many kind of sources.

Author: now: 
- In a nutshell, the `buzzard` library provides powerful abstractions to manipulate together images (GeoTIFF, PNG, ...) and geometries (GeoJSON, Shapefile, ...) that come from different kind of sources

I feel that the `that come from different kind of sources` part is a bit redundant.
What about: 
- In a nutshell, the `buzzard` library provides powerful abstractions to manipulate together images and geometries that come from different kind of sources (`GeoTIFF`, `PNG`, `GeoJSON`, `Shapefile`, `numpy array`, `buzzard pipelines`, ...).

@azarz @sophiefnt ?

> :grey_question: In a nutshell, `buzzard` provides powerful abstractions to work with images and geometries that comes from many kind of sources.

Reviewer 5: yes, agree, and it doesn't break the sentence so it's easier to read !
(except if you meant by "sources" where the actual images come from, i.e. drone acquired ?  )

> :grey_question: In a nutshell, `buzzard` provides powerful abstractions to work with images and geometries that comes from many kind of sources.

Author: No, by `source` I mean what is contained between the parenthesis

:heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x:

:grey_question: :grey_question: :grey_question:
- A _python_ library.
- Primarily designed to hide all cumbersome operations when doing data-science with [GIS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_information_system) files.
- Multipurpose: it can be used in all kind of situations were images or geometries are involved.
- A pythonic wrapper for _osgeo_'s _gdal_/_ogr_/_osr_.
- A solution to work with arbitrary large images by simplifying and automating the manipulation of image slices.
- Developed at [Delair](https://delair.aero) where it is used in several deep learning and algorithmic projects.

:grey_question: :grey_question: :grey_question:

## `buzzard` contains
:heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x:
- a class to open/read/write/create GIS files: [`Dataset`](./buzzard/_dataset.py)
- a toolbox class designed to locate a rectangle in both image space and geometry space: [`Footprint`](./buzzard/_footprint.py)

:heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x:

:grey_question: :grey_question: :grey_question:

> - A [`Dataset`](https://github.com/airware/buzzard/blob/master/buzzard/_dataset.py) class that oversees all opened files in order to share ressources.

Author: ```suggestion
- A [`Dataset`](https://github.com/airware/buzzard/blob/master/buzzard/_dataset.py) class that oversees all opened raster and vector files in order to share resources.
```

> - A [`Dataset`](https://github.com/airware/buzzard/blob/master/buzzard/_dataset.py) class that oversees all opened files in order to share ressources.

Author: I was referring to this: https://github.com/airware/buzzard/blob/master/buzzard/_dataset.py#L33

What if I keep it short with just `- A [`Dataset`](https://github.com/airware/buzzard/blob/master/buzzard/_dataset.py) class that oversees all opened raster and vector files.` ?

  <img src="https://github.com/airware/buzzard/raw/README-update/img/ex1-img1.jpg" width="80%"><br><br>
</div>

## Advanced examples
Additional examples can be found here:
- [Files and _Footprints_ in depth](https://github.com/airware/buzzard/blob/master/doc/examples.ipynb)
- [_async rasters_ in depth](https://github.com/airware/buzzard/blob/master/doc/notebook2/async_rasters.ipynb)

## `buzzard` allows
:heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x:
- Raster and vector files reading to `numpy.ndarray`, `shapely` objects, `geojson` and raw coordinates
- Raster and vector files writing from `numpy.ndarray`, `shapely` objects, `geojson` and raw coordinates
- Raster and vector files creation
- Powerful manipulations of raster windows
- Spatial reference homogenization between opened files like a `GIS software`

:heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x: :heavy_multiplication_x:

:grey_question: :grey_question: :grey_question:
- Raster and vector files opening and creation. Supports all [GDAL drivers (GTiff, PNG, ...)](https://www.gdal.org/formats_list.html) and all [OGR drivers (GeoJSON, DXF, Shapefile, ...)](https://www.gdal.org/ogr_formats.html).

> - Raster files reading to _numpy.ndarray_.

Reviewer 5: clarification? don't you read the raster ""from"" a numpy array ? and then (cf. line below) you write the raster file as a numpy array (i.e. write the raster in that format)?

> - Raster files reading to _numpy.ndarray_.

Author: I edited your above suggestion, is that clearer?

  - _Options:_ `sub-rectangle reading`, `rotated and scaled sub-rectangle reading (thanks to on-the-fly remapping with OpenCV)`, `automatic parallelization of read and remapping (soon)`, `async (soon)`, `be the source of an image processing pipeline (soon)`.
  - _Properties:_ `thread-safe`

> - Raster files writing from _numpy.ndarray_.

Author: I edited your above suggestion, is that clearer?

  - _Options:_ `sub-rectangle writing`, `rotated and scaled sub-rectangle writing (thanks to on-the-fly remapping with OpenCV)`, `masked writing`.

> - Vector files reading to _shapely objects_, _geojson dict_ and _raw coordinates_.

Reviewer 5: same comment as above: don't you read the files "" from"" these objects and then you write (new) vector files to these objects ? 
I'm a little confused

> - Vector files reading to _shapely objects_, _geojson dict_ and _raw coordinates_.

Author: I edited your above suggestion, is that clearer?

  - _Options:_ `masking`.
  - _Properties:_ `thread-safe`

> - Vector files writing from _shapely objects_, _geojson dict_ and _raw coordinates_.

Author: I edited your above suggestion, is that clearer?

- Powerful manipulations of raster windows

> - Instantiation of image processing pipelines where each node is a raster, and each edge is a user defined python function working on _numpy.ndarray_ (beta, partially implemented).

Author: The [instantiation](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/instantiation) concern the [pipelines](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pipeline_(computing)), not the images. Here `instantiation` refer to the act of creating an object that can ingest images and spit out new images. 

For example a deep learning model for computer vision is an `image processing pipeline`, you first instanciate it, and then give it an image that will be transformed step by step. 

In buzzard it means chaining the calls to `create_cached_raster_recipe`.

@sophiefnt What can be changed to make it clearer? Maybe add a link to the `Dataset.create_cached_raster_recipe` method?

> - Instantiation of image processing pipelines where each node is a raster, and each edge is a user defined python function working on _numpy.ndarray_ (beta, partially implemented).

Reviewer 5: ok get it, thanks ! So, the nodes and edges are later fed to the pipelines? we just create the different steps here but don't transform the image yet ? 
I think that's ok like that, if the vocab is widely-used
